# Concepts

This doc should serve as a referece for the different building blocks of the Anchorage project.
It's akin to the protocol that any server could implement, not just the one in this repo.

## Blob

A blob is a piece of uploaded data, but decorated with metadata describing its tags,
owner, or permissions.
Each blob is broken up into chunks so that downloads can fail and resume with pieces
that a client hasn't received.
Chunks can be secured with the Namespace's encryption key or not.

## Node

A node refers to a set of blobs and has a random guid for an id instead of being 
content addressed.
It can refer to a set of blobs that together make up a file.
It can also hold attributes for search etc.
It belongs to a namespace.

```json
DOCUMENT ME
```

## Namespace

A Namespace is a collection of nodes.
It's also the unit at which permissions are shared and enforced.
For example, sharing a single item in a namspace isn't possible unless it's the only
item in the namespace.
A namespace also has an encryption key used to encrypt the chunks inside the namespace.

## Key Directory

This service hosts people's public keys tied to their email address.
Those public keys are used to encrypt namespace keys for users.

# Security

*Note:* To be implemented

The main aim of Anchorage is to utilize security through encryption.
That is, all data is meaningless with some way to decrypt the namespace key
and decrypt the data.

However, that does not mean servers should serve up any chunk just because.
There is a special blob that does not get content addressed, and holds a set
of access controls to the different namespaces.
